add event_time page (#6383)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/advanced-ci.md

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

### Speeding up comparisons

> It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development), for example only the last 7 days of data. When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you may configure your CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development), for example only the last 7 days of data. When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can:
```

> - Compare data in CI against production for only the overlapping times, avoiding false positives and returning results faster.

Reviewer: I think both of these bullets have the same benefit of "using only the overlapping timeframe, which avoids incorrect row-count changes and returns results faster"

I would distinguish the 2 scenarios as:
- scenarios where your CI job only builds a subset of data
- scenarios where your CI job contains fresher data than production 

Rather than nesting the second scenario within the first - lmk if that makes sense!

Author: changed it to this;

It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (for example only the last 7 days of data). 

When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can optimize comparisons by using only the overlapping timeframe (meaning the timeframe exists in both the CI and production environment), helping you avoid incorrect row-count changes to return results faster.

This is useful in scenarios like:
- **Subset of data in CI** &mdash; When CI builds only a subset of data (like the most recent 7 days), compare changes might interpret the excluded data as "deleted rows." Configuring `event_time` allows you to avoid this issue by limiting comparisons to the overlapping timeframe, preventing false alerts about data deletions that are just filtered out in CI.
- **Fresher data in CI than in production** &mdash; When your CI job includes fresher data than production, compare changes might flag the additional rows as "new" data, even though they’re just fresher data in CI. With `event_time` configured, the comparison only includes the shared timeframe and correctly reflects actual changes in the data.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

### Considerations
It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development), for example only the last 7 days of data. When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can:

- Compare data in CI against production for only the overlapping times, avoiding false positives and returning results faster.
- Handle scenarios where CI contains fresher data than production by using only the overlapping timeframe, which avoids incorrect row-count changes.

> - Coming soon, you'll be able to add a flag to the command list allowing you to select the specific time slice to compare.

Author: ```suggestion
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

### Considerations
You can set a [event_time](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) for a model, seed, snapshot, or source to represent the actual timestamp of the event, rather than something like loading date. This configuration is important for certain features, such as [Incremental microbatch](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch) and compare changes in CI/CD workflows, where it ensures the same time-slice of data is accurately compared between your CI and production environments.

When configured, `event_time` enables compare changes to:

- Compare data in CI vs. production for overlapping times only, reducing false discrepancies.
- Handle scenarios where CI contains fresher data than production by using only the overlapping timeframe, which avoids incorrect row-count changes.
- Account for subset data builds in CI without flagging filtered-out rows as "deleted" when compared with production.
- Coming soon, you'll be able to add a flag to the `dbt compare` command to select the specific time slice to compare.

> 

Author: are we ok mentioning this?

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove the reference to sample mode coming soon tbh! (assuming that's what this question applied to)

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

### Speeding up comparisons

When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can optimize comparisons by using only the overlapping timeframe (meaning the timeframe exists in both the CI and production environment), helping you avoid incorrect row-count changes and return results faster.

This is useful in scenarios like:

> - **Subset of data in CI** &mdash; When CI builds only a subset of data (like the most recent 7 days), compare changes might interpret the excluded data as "deleted rows." Configuring `event_time` allows you to avoid this issue by limiting comparisons to the overlapping timeframe, preventing false alerts about data deletions that are just filtered out in CI.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Subset of data in CI** &mdash; When CI builds only a [subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (like the most recent 7 days), compare changes might interpret the excluded data as "deleted rows." Configuring `event_time` allows you to avoid this issue by limiting comparisons to the overlapping timeframe, preventing false alerts about data deletions that are just filtered out in CI.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

> ### Considerations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Speeding up comparisons
```

> It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (for example only the last 7 days of data). 

Reviewer: Suggest removing this since we call this out in the "scenario" bullet list below

> It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (for example only the last 7 days of data). 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can optimize comparisons by using only the overlapping timeframe (meaning the timeframe exists in both the CI and production environment), helping you avoid incorrect row-count changes to return results faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can optimize comparisons by using only the overlapping timeframe (meaning the timeframe exists in both the CI and production environment), helping you avoid incorrect row-count changes and return results faster.
```

> You can set a [event_time](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) for a model, seed, snapshot, or source to represent the actual timestamp of the event, rather than something like loading date. This configuration is important for certain features, such as [Incremental microbatch](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch) and compare changes in CI/CD workflows, where it ensures the same time-slice of data is accurately compared between your CI and production environments.
> 
> When configured, `event_time` enables compare changes to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's common for CI jobs to only [build a subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development), for example only the last 7 days of data. When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can:
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to repeat the full description of event_time here - it's not relevant in this context that it's also used in microbatches, and we describe the CI benefits in more detail in the next paragraph anyway

> - Compare data in CI versus production for overlapping times only, reducing false discrepancies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Compare data in CI against production for only the overlapping times, avoiding false positives and returning results faster.
```

- Handle scenarios where CI contains fresher data than production by using only the overlapping timeframe, which avoids incorrect row-count changes.

> - Account for subset data builds in CI without flagging filtered-out rows as "deleted" when compared with production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
These first three bullets seem to be saying basically the same thing - have collapsed them down a bit.

> - **Fresher data in CI than in production** &mdash; When your CI job includes fresher data than production, compare changes might flag the additional rows as "new" data, even though they’re just fresher data in CI. With `event_time` configured, the comparison only includes the shared timeframe and correctly reflects actual changes in the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fresher data in CI than in production** &mdash; When your CI job includes fresher data than production (because it has run more recently), compare changes might flag the additional rows as "new" data, even though they’re just fresher data in CI. With `event_time` configured, the comparison only includes the shared timeframe and correctly reflects actual changes in the data.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/example-ci-compare-changes-tab.png" width="85%" title="Example of the Compare tab" />

> ### Speeding up comparisons

Reviewer: I think this is about both speeding up comparisons _and_ making sure they're accurate

Reviewer: Maybe just "optimizing comparisons"?

Author: no worries! @joellabes suggested this header as an improvement and optimizing comparisons covers both i think! so happy to change it

When an [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) column is specified on your model, compare changes can optimize comparisons by using only the overlapping timeframe (meaning the timeframe exists in both the CI and production environment), helping you avoid incorrect row-count changes and return results faster.

This is useful in scenarios like:

> - **Subset of data in CI** &mdash; When CI builds only a [subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (like the most recent 7 days), compare changes might interpret the excluded data as "deleted rows." Configuring `event_time` allows you to avoid this issue by limiting comparisons to the overlapping timeframe, preventing false alerts about data deletions that are just filtered out in CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Subset of data in CI** &mdash; When CI builds only a [subset of data](/best-practices/best-practice-workflows#limit-the-data-processed-when-in-development) (like the most recent 7 days), compare changes would interpret the excluded data as "deleted rows." Configuring `event_time` allows you to avoid this issue by limiting comparisons to the overlapping timeframe, preventing false alerts about data deletions that are just filtered out in CI.
```

> - **Fresher data in CI than in production** &mdash; When your CI job includes fresher data than production (because it has run more recently), compare changes might flag the additional rows as "new" data, even though they’re just fresher data in CI. With `event_time` configured, the comparison only includes the shared timeframe and correctly reflects actual changes in the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fresher data in CI than in production** &mdash; When your CI job includes fresher data than production (because it has run more recently), compare changes would flag the additional rows as "new" data, even though they’re just fresher data in CI. With `event_time` configured, the comparison only includes the shared timeframe and correctly reflects actual changes in the data.
```
